feat: write up dashboards and queries guide (#295)
tidalmigrations/tidalmigrations.github.io: pages/assess/dashboards_and_queries.md

---
title: Queries and Dashboards
layout: pages
parent: Assess
keywords: dashboard, query, collection, organize, refine
last_updated: September 2025
summary: "Create complex queries, build dashboards of queries and share them with your team"
permalink: dashboards-and-queries.html
---

In Tidal Accelerator, you can save complex queries built with our advanced filtering system to your inventory dashboard. Queries can include filters, as well as search values and tags. 

> Say for example you'd like to keep track of all applications which are in the 'production' environment, their transition plan is complete but they have not yet been migrated. You can save this as a query, so that you can apply this query with a single click whenever you'd like, rather than needing to manually filter for these values each time you want to work with this subset of applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you may want to track all applications in the 'production' environment that have a complete transition plan but have not yet been migrated. You can save this as a query, so that you can apply this query with a single click whenever you'd like, rather than needing to manually filter for these values each time you want to work with this subset of applications.
```

> You can then take this further by creating multiple dashboards, and sharing those dashboards with your other team members.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then take this further by creating multiple dashboards and sharing them with your other team members.
```

## Creating Queries

You can create queries for applications, servers and databases.

From the Dashboard, click 'New Query' and select a record type.

{% include image.html file="create-queries-1.PNG" %}
<br>

> You will be taken to the record page, with the advanced filter query open. Here you can build your query by selecting filters. Note that queries allow you to save all configuration from a record view, so you can also set a search value, as well as tags.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will be taken to the record page, with the advanced filter sidebar open. Here you can build your query by selecting filters. Note that queries allow you to save all configuration from a record view, so you can also set a search value, as well as tags.
```

{% include image.html file="create-queries-2.PNG" %}
<br>

To save, click 'Save Filter' in the bottom right of the filter drawer. Give this query a name and select a dashboard to save it to.

{% include image.html file="create-queries-3.PNG" %}
<br>

> Navigate back to the dashboard page and you will see your query saved as a card listing filters which are applied, as well as the search value and tags if you have set them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate back to the dashboard page, and you will see your query saved as a card listing the filters that are applied, as well as the search value and tags (if you have set them).
```

{% include image.html file="create-queries-4.PNG" %}
<br>

## Creating Dashboards

> You will have a 'main' dashboard by default, but you can also create new named dashboards. Simply click on the '+' button next to the 'main' dashboard tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will have a 'main' dashboard by default, but you can also create new named dashboards. Click on the '+' button next to the 'main' dashboard tab.
```
